>> Kadi Kraman: All right, we have reached
the end, congratulations everyone.
I hope this has been interesting and
insightful and has put
you on the way to building your own
production-ready apps with React Native.
I was trying to figure out what to put in
this final word section, and I'm I decided
to just add links that came to mind as
interesting things to look at next.
So if you learn to measure things and
you're like, what should I look at next?
This is a selection, so
there's not a particular theme here,
of React Native libraries and
websites that might be interesting.
So I've added the expo documentation, so
we have a huge amount of documentation for
various things that you
can do in React Native, so
in particular things that you
can do with expo SDK libraries.
One thing to reference especially is under
reference we have all the SDK libraries.
So if you're wondering what's
possible to do with React Native,
then it's handy to know
that these libraries exist.
And similarly, I'd like to link to
the official React Native documentation.
So especially if you go to Guides or
Components.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
this is a really nice resource for
everything that is built
into React Native.
So we covered a lot of it,
but if you're wondering what
else is built into React Native,
this is a great resource to go through and
see what exists and what properties exist.
Then we have React Native directory.
So this is a place for searching for
React Native apps that exist.
So if you want to let's do video you can
have video metadata video processing
video player so it will show you like a
handy how many downloads how many stars so
it is a nice resource for
finding React Native libraries.
Then we have Ignite.
So now that you know how
to build React Native apps,
you might want to use a template instead.
So Ignite is built by Infinite Red, who
are a React Native consultancy in the US.
They are absolute pros when
it comes to React Native.
And this is their template
that they use for
their own consultancy
whenever they build projects.
So it's basically has all
the usual suspects for
like things that they usually use.
It is using Expo under the hood as well or
rather it is using Expo.
So if you want to create a new project and
you want to start with a template rather
than from scratch then this
might be something to look into.
Then I added a link to Maestro.
So this is a nice UI testing library for
React Native.
So you might have heard of Detox,
which is also an option, but
Maestro is kind of a newer version and
I think this is a something worth
looking into if you need to do
kind of end-to-end UI testing.
Then we have reanimated and
react-navate-gesture-handler.
So if you are looking to incorporate
animations into your app, so
especially things like swipe to delete or
making your buttons larger.
I think swipe to delete
is a great example.
Or creating your own image zoom component,
then these two libraries used together
are like a match made in heaven.
Then I had to link to
react-native-vision-camera, which is just
a cool new library that was recently
released that you might want to check out.
And there's also react-native-skia that
lets you do 3D graphics in React Native.
React-native-bootsplash lets you
do animated splash animation,
so rather than a static image,
you can have it animate into your app.
The flash-list which is a more optimized
list components if flat list isn't enough.
Then there's native-wind, which is
like tailwind but for React Native.
So we built we used the built-in
styles throughout this course, but
now that you know the built-in styles,
if you would like to step back and
use like a tailwind-ish styling system,
you could check out Native Wind.
And finally, tamagui, I thought was a good
example of a styling library and a UI kit.
So if you want to use some
built-in components with styling,
this might be something
too worth checking out.
Do you have any general best practices for
deploying apps for
clients to either store or
how to manage client apps?
Kinda, for client apps make the clients
get their own Apple developer and
Google developer accounts, 100%.
So if you're you could in theory
publish something yourself and
then transfer the app, but
I've personally never done it before,
and you just want the client
to manage both the expense.
You want to make sure that they are
creating the app using their own company
accounts so
they're doing a business account.
So definitely get the client
to create the accounts and
give you the admin user so
you can manage the apps.
>> Speaker 2: Regarding the privacy
policy like for example does Google write
the privacy policy for you or do you
have to write your own privacy policy?
>> Kadi Kraman: You have to write you own.
And I think it can be any URL,
so I don't think they check
that you own the website other
than like a sanity check.
So you can just do like
a little website or
maybe you had like a public notion page,
I'm not sure that would work.
But it needs to be a published URL,
so potentially you could do it on
GitHub pages, I've never tried, but
it needs to be a public URL, yes.
>> Speaker 2: Do you have any
suggestions or techniques for
sending out major or
minor updates to the app after deployment?
Like between EAS and Transporter, is one
easier than the other for iOS updates?
>> Kadi Kraman: One is not easier
than the other, that's all,
they do the same thing,
to be honest, under the hood.
So something that we didn't cover here,
but something that you can do,
which you can't do with Native apps,
is that you can actually deliver
over-the-air updates to your apps
if it's a JavaScript-only update.
So we have a library for that, CS updates,
so you might have heard of Codebush
from AppCenter from Microsoft.
So it is like Codebush, basically,
well it is the same kind of concept.
So with React Native,
because our app is a native app,
a JavaScript bundle,
then we are able to, in locally,
we're developing as we're updating
JavaScript bundle on the fly.
You can use a similar
kinda thing in production,
you can swap out the JavaScript
bundle on the fly.
And that's what ES update does.
And this will be Pretty much instant, but
it does come with a caveat around you
then, as a developer are responsible for
not pushing updates that will go
against the app store's policy.
So technically you could push an update
that completely changes your app UI,
but if you do that,
you are violating the policies for
both Apple App and Play Store actually.
And if the reviewer spots it,
they're likely to ask you to remove
all the dynamic updates from your app.
So it's kind of fine to use it for,
like you mentioned,
quick bug fixes if something
is really wrong, but
it shouldn't be used for like very
large updates if you want to make
sure you retain the ability
to use it in the future.
>> Speaker 2: It's accessibility
built in to React Native or
are there any best practices for
making sure a native app is accessible
in the same way you would for a web app?
>> Kadi Kraman: That is
a really great question.
So there are accessibility features
built into react native, but
they're a little bit hidden.
There is a library, React Native AMA.
So AMA stands for
accessible mobile applications, and
it is the only library that I
know of that is specifically for
accessibility in React Native.
It has a bunch of documentation
that you can use to reference
to like understand what the good
practices are, have this website here.
You don't have to use
this library necessarily,
but this is a really good resource
to show you what's possible.
So for all pressable elements,
for example,
adding this accessible true
accessibility label accessibility hint
to make sure what gets read out
throughout during a screen reader.
But then if you do wanna use this library,
it basically wraps
the existing components.
So you would import these components from
React Native AMA instead of React Native,
and then it enforces you to write
certain accessibility props.
And it also highlights
if you have a component
that hasn't had direct
accessibility props set.
I think that's pretty much it for me.
Thank you very much for
joining me on this course.
>> Audience: [APPLAUSE]